# Application Goals
- The goal of this app is to reduce the level of stress and headache that comes with all aspects of trip planning for conventions, so you can spend less time stressing and more time enjoying the events. It does this by allowing users to create an account to take their schedule with them wherever the con takes them, discover information on future conventions (both nearby and upcoming), add conventions to their personal convention list, and create their own custom schedule by adding, detailing, and managing events for any particular convention.
# Project development & testing
- I broke the project into two distinct phases. First, I implemented the user interface for the sign in, convention list, and event list activities. I figured that the create and edit activities for accounts, conventions, and events would be similar to these activities. Also, I didn’t want to create technical debt by implementing them with errors when it comes to the structure of the data stored in the database. So, that would be the next thing I accomplished, implementing the database and linking it to the newly created activities. Finally, I created the create and edit activities for accounts (sign up), conventions, and events by duplicating their counterparts and making slight alterations. Throughout this process, I tested each bit of functionality with the emulator built into Android Studio. It’s important to test application functionality because even if the design is implemented correctly, the fundamental application design may be wrong. For example, I designed the database with several errors. Once I had implemented the user interface for the schema, I saw that it would be better if the data was structured slightly differently. Ultimately, I had six iterations of the database by the end of development. These techniques can be applied in the future by structuring project development around the technology being used. As one person, it would be difficult to be building UI in XML, programming business logic in Java, and structuring data in SQL all at the same time. So, separating by technology/API/SDK is very helpful. Personally, I feel that testing throughout development similar to the Agile method is the best way to test software. Even though there is no cost in physical materials for fixing defects, software defects tend to compound, at least, in my experience.
# User needs
- ConTracker requires a number of screens in order to function and support our user’s needs: login, create account, create convention, convention list, edit convention, create event, event list, and edit event. Our design puts users first by allowing them to create and edit their events freely and with ease. I would consider our designs successful because they accomplish exactly that.
# Challenges & Success
- I wouldn’t call any of my work in this project an “innovation”, but I did overcome several challenges with storing accurate dates in the database. At first, every stored date was an hour ahead of the input I gave. After doing research, I found that dates have to be stored in a single timezone, UTC specifically. So, before storing the date, I converted it to UTC and before presenting a date to the user, I converted it from UTC to their local timezone. Doing this consistently throughout the application was tedious. One just plain annoying issue was formatting dates correctly because the SimpleDateFormat.format function does not throw an error when passing a Calendar object to it, even though it requires a Date object (acquired through Calendar.getTime()).
- I believe my database schema is well designed considering the 8 weeks I was given and I started a full time job at the beginning of the term. I attempted to normalize the data in areas I knew it would repeat like states, while providing the necessary CRUD queries via tables like Convention, Event, etc.

